0:03
Planning with code execution is the idea that, instead of asking an LLM to output a plan in,
0:06
say, JSON format to execute one step at a time, why not have the LLM just try to write code and
0:12
that code can capture multiple steps of the plan, like call this function, then call this function,
0:17
then call this function, and by executing code generated by the LLM, we can actually carry out
0:22
fairly complex plans. Let's take a look at when you might want to use this technique.
0:27
Let's say you want to build a system to answer questions about coffee machine sales based on
0:33
a spreadsheet with data like this of previous sales. You might have an LLM with a set of tools
0:38
like these to get column max, to look at a certain column and get the maximum value,
0:44
so there's a whole answer, what's the most expensive coffee, or get column mean, filter
0:49
rows, get column min, get column median, sum rows, and so on. So these are examples of a range of
0:55
tools you might give an LLM to process this spreadsheet or these rows and columns of data
1:00
in different ways. Now, if a user were to ask which month had the highest sales of hot chocolate,
1:06
it turns out that you can answer this query using these tools, but it's pretty complicated.
1:11
You'd have to use filter rows to extract transactions in January for hot chocolate,
1:16
then do stats on that, and then repeat for February, figure out stats on that,
1:20
then repeat for March, repeat for April, repeat for May, all the way through December,
1:24
and then take the max, and so you can actually string it together with a pretty complicated
1:28
process using these tools, but it's not such a great solution. But worse, whether someone to
1:35
ask how many unique transactions were there last week, well, these tools are insufficient to get
1:39
that answer, so you may end up creating a new tool, get unique entries, or you may run into
1:45
another query, what were the amounts of last five transactions, then you have to create yet another
1:49
tool to get the data to answer that query. And in practice, I've seen teams, when they run across
1:56
more and more queries, end up creating more and more and more and more tools to try to give the
2:01
other enough tools to cover all the range of things someone may ask about a dataset like this.
2:06
So this approach is brittle, inefficient, and I've seen teams continuously dealing with edge cases
2:13
and trying to create more tools, but it turns out there is a better way, which is if you were
2:18
to prompt LLM to say, please write code to solve the user's query and return your answer as Python
2:24
code, maybe delimited with these beginning and ending execute Python XML tags, then LLM can just
2:31
write code to load the spreadsheet into a data processing library, here it's using the pandas
2:38
library, and then here it actually is coming up with a plan. The plan is, after loading the CSV,
2:44
first it has to ensure the date column is parsed a certain way, then sort by the date, select the
2:49
last five transactions, show just the price column, and so on. But these are the steps one, two, three,
2:55
and four, and five, say, of the plan. Because a programming language like Python, and in this
3:01
example, also with the pandas data processing library imported, because this has many built-in
3:07
functions, hundreds or even thousands of functions, and moreover, these are functions that the LLM has
3:14
seen a lot of data on how to call when. By letting your LLM write code, it can choose from
3:21
these hundreds or thousands of relevant functions that it's already seen a lot of data on when to
3:26
use, so this lets it string together different choices of functions to call from this very large
3:33
library in order to come up with a plan for answering a fairly complex query like this.
3:39
Just one more example. If someone were to ask, how many unique transactions last week?
3:44
Well, you can come up with a plan to read the CSV file, parse the date column, define the time
3:50
window, filter rows, drop duplicate rows, and count. The details of this aren't important, but hopefully
3:55
what you can see is, if you read the comments here, the LLM is roughly coming up with a four-step plan
4:02
and is expressing each of the steps in code that you can then just execute, and this will get the
4:08
user their answer. So for applications where the task can plausibly be done by writing code, letting
4:15
an LLM express its plan in software code that you can just execute for the LLM can be a very powerful
4:22
way to let it write rich plans. And of course, the caveat that I mentioned in the module on tool use
4:29
to consider if you need to find a safe execution environment like a sandbox to run the code, that
4:35
also applies. Although I know that even though it's probably not the best practice, I also know a lot of
4:40
developers that don't use a sandbox. Lastly, it turns out that planning with code works well.
4:46
From this diagram adapted from a research paper by Xinyao Wang and others, you can see that for many
4:53
different models for the tasks that they examined, code as action in which the LLM is invited to write
5:00
code and take actions through code, that is superior to having it write JSON and then translate
5:07
JSON into action or text. And you also see a trend that writing code outperforms having the LLM write
5:15
a plan in JSON, and writing a plan in JSON is also a bit better than writing a plan in just plain text.
5:21
Now, of course, there are applications where you might want to give your custom tools to an LLM
5:26
to use, and so writing code isn't for every single application. But when it does apply, it can be a
5:32
very powerful way for an LLM to express a plan. So that wraps up the section on planning. Today, one of
5:39
the most powerful uses of Agentic AI that plans is highly agentic software coders. It turns out that
5:47
if you ask one of the highly agentic software coding assistance tools to write a complex piece
5:52
of software for you, it may come up with a detailed plan to build this component of software first,
5:58
then build a second component, build a third, maybe even plan to test out the components as
6:02
going along. And then it forms a checklist that then goes through to execute one step at a time.
6:08
And so it actually works really well for building increasingly complex pieces of software. For other
6:14
applications, I think the use of planning is still growing and developing. One of the disadvantages
6:19
of planning is that because the developer doesn't tell the system what exactly to do, it's a little
6:25
bit harder to control it, and you don't really know in advance what will happen at runtime. But giving
6:30
up some of this control, it does significantly increase the range of things that the model may
6:35
decide to try out. So this important technology is kind of cutting edge, doesn't feel completely
6:42
mature outside of maybe agentic coding where it works well, although I'm sure there's still a lot
6:47
of room to grow. But hopefully you enjoy using it in some of your applications someday.
6:54
That wraps up planning. There's one last design pattern I hope to share with you in this module,
6:59
which is how to build multi-agent systems. We have not just one agent, but many of them
7:05
working in collaboration to complete the task for you. Let's take a look at that in the next video.
