0:03
Welcome to this final module where you learn about design patterns that lets you build
0:05
highly autonomous agents, where you don't need to hard code in advance the sequence of steps to take,
0:11
but it can be more flexible and decide for itself what steps it wants to take to accomplish a task.
0:16
We'll talk about the planning design pattern and then later in this module,
0:20
how to build multi-agent systems. Let's dive in.
0:23
Suppose you run a sunglasses retail store and have information on what sunglasses are in your
0:30
inventory stored in a database. You might want a customer service agent to be able to answer
0:35
questions like, do you have any round sunglasses in stock? They're under $100. This is a fairly
0:40
complex query because you have to look through the product descriptions to see what sunglasses
0:45
are round, then look at what is in stock, and then finally see what's under $100 in order to tell the
0:52
customer, yes, we have classic sunglasses. How do you build an agent to answer a broad range of
0:59
customer queries like this and many others? In order to do so, we're going to give LLM
1:05
a set of tools to let it get item descriptions, such as look up if different glasses are round,
1:11
check inventory, maybe process item returns, which is not needed for this query,
1:15
but we need it for other queries, get item price, check past transactions, process item sale,
1:22
and so on. In order to let an LLM figure out what's the right sequence of tools to use to respond to
1:29
the customer request, you might then write a prompt like this. You have access to the following tools
1:35
and give it a description of each of the, say, six tools or even more tools that the LLM has,
1:40
and to then tell it to return a step-by-step plan to carry out the user's request. In this case,
1:47
to answer this particular query, a reasonable plan that an LLM might output might be to first
1:53
use get item descriptions to check the different descriptions to find the round sunglasses,
1:59
and then use check inventory to see if they're in stock, and use get item price to see if the
2:03
in-stock results are less than $100. After an LLM outputs this plan with three steps, what we can do
2:11
is then take the step one text, that is this text written here in red, and pass that to an LLM,
2:18
maybe with additional context about what are the tools with your user query, with additional
2:22
background context, and pass an LLM to carry out step one. And in this case, hopefully the LLM will
2:29
choose to call the get item descriptions to get the appropriate descriptions of items,
2:34
and the output of that first step can let it select which are the round sunglasses,
2:39
and that output of step one is then passed together with the step two instructions, that
2:45
would be these instructions that I have here in blue, to an LLM to then execute the second step
2:49
of the plan. Hopefully it will then take the two pairs of round sunglasses we found on the previous
2:55
slide and check the inventory, and the output of that second step is then used to another LLM call,
3:02
where you have the output of the second step as well as the instructions of what to do for step
3:06
three. Pass the LLM to have it get the item price, and finally this output is fed back to
3:12
the LLM one last time to generate the final answer for the user. In this slide, I've simplified a lot
3:17
of details a little bit. The actual plan typically written by the LLM is more detailed than these
3:22
simple one-line instructions, but the basic workflow is to have an LLM write out multiple
3:27
steps of a plan, and then task it to execute each step of the plan in turn with some appropriate
3:33
surrounding context about what is the task, what are the tools available, and so on. And the
3:38
exciting thing about using an LLM to plan this way is that we did not have to decide in advance
3:45
what is the sequence in which to call tools in order to answer a fairly complex customer request.
3:52
If a customer were to make a different request, such as I would like to return the gold frame
3:58
glasses that I had purchased but not the metal frame ones, then you can imagine an LLM similarly
4:05
being able to come up with a different plan to figure out based on what they had purchased previously,
4:09
which glasses they had bought based on get item descriptions, where the gold frame ones they want
4:14
to return, and then maybe call process item return. So with an agent that can plan like this, it can
4:19
carry out a much wider range of tasks that can require calling many different tools in many
4:25
different orders. One more example of planning, let's take a look at an email assistant. If you
4:30
want to be to tell your assistant, so please reply to that email invitation from Bob in New York,
4:34
tell him to attend and archive his email. Then an email assistant may be given tools like this to
4:40
search email, move an email, delete an email, and send an email. And you might write an assistant
4:44
prompt saying you have access to the following tools, and again please return the step-by-step plan.
4:48
In this case, maybe the LLM will say the steps for this are to use search email to find the email from
4:54
Bob that mentioned dinner and New York, and then generate and send an email to confirm attendance,
4:59
and then lastly move that email to the archive folder. Given this plan, which looks a reasonable
5:04
one, you would then again task an LLM step-by-step to carry out this plan. So the text from the first
5:11
step, shown here in red, will be fed to the LLM with additional background context, and hopefully
5:16
it'll trigger search email. Then the output of that can be given to an LLM again with the step
5:22
two instructions to send an appropriate response. And then finally, assuming the email was sent
5:27
successfully, you can take that output and have the LLM execute the third step of moving the email
5:33
from Bob into the archive folder. The planning design pattern is already used successfully
5:39
in many highly agentic coding systems, where if you ask it to write a piece of software to build
5:45
some fairly complex application, it might actually come up with a plan to build this component, build
5:51
this component, to almost form a checklist, and then do those steps one at a time to build a
5:56
decently complex piece of software. For many other applications, the use of planning is still
6:02
maybe more experimental. It's not in very widespread use. And one of the challenges of
6:07
planning is it makes the system sometimes a little bit hard to control, because you as a developer,
6:13
you don't really know at runtime what plan it will come up with. And so I think outside highly
6:19
agentic coding systems, where it actually works really well, adoption of planning is still growing
6:24
in other sectors. But this is exciting technology, and I think it will keep getting better and we'll
6:29
see it in more and more applications. The cool thing about building agents that can plan for
6:34
themselves is you don't need to hard code in advance the exact sequence of steps an LLM may
6:39
take to carry out a complex task. Now, I know that in this video, I've gone over the planning process
6:45
at a fairly high level, with it all putting a list of steps and then tasking an LLM to carry
6:51
out the steps of the plan one step at a time. But how does this actually work? In the next video,
6:57
we'll take a deeper dive to look further into the guts of what these plans actually look like,
7:03
and how the strings together to have an LLM plan and execute the plan for you.
7:07
Let's take a look at that in the next video.
